GP comments on markov chain chapter (#65)
drvinceknight/amwoss: src/chapters/02/main.tex

another barber's chair and barber.

The mathematical tool used to model this situation is a Markov chain.

> %%% "The mathematical tool we will use to model this situation..." (This reads like it's the only tool to model this situation)

Reviewer: Yup **but** see #66 where I remove all "we/us" etc... (I've also written a `README.md` there to capture all these thoughts). But yes this sentence should be changed to something like:

```
The mathematical tool seen in this chapter to model this situation is a Markov chain.
```

> %%% "The mathematical tool we will use to model this situation..." (This reads like it's the only tool to model this situation)

Reviewer: To make sure we don't miss them (we can grep the whole directory) let's try and use `% TODO` as a single convention for notes in text.
```suggestion
% TODO "The mathematical tool we will use to model this situation..." (This reads like it's the only tool to model this situation)
```

states.

For example, in the barber shop a single number is sufficient to describe the

> status of the shop. %% Le this number denote the number of customers present in the barber shop

Reviewer: ```suggestion
status of the shop: the number of customers present.
```

If that number is 1 this implies that 1 customer is
currently having their hair cut. If that number is 5 this implies that 2

> customers are being served and 3 are waiting. The entire state space %%% We don't know what a 'state space' is yet: "The set of all values that this can take is...., we call this the state space."

Reviewer: :+1:

> customers are being served and 3 are waiting. The entire state space %%% We don't know what a 'state space' is yet: "The set of all values that this can take is...., we call this the state space."
> is, in this
> case a finite set of integers from 0 to 6. If the system is full (all barbers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
customers are being served and 3 are waiting. The entire set of values that this value can take
is, in this
a finite set of integers from 0 to 6, this set, in general is called the \textit{state space}. 
If the system is full (all barbers
```

As customers arrive and leave the system goes between states as shown in
Figure~\ref{fig:barber-shop-birth-death-no-rates}.

%%% There's a big jump here. Why can't we go directly from state 4 to state 1? We haven't explained.
%%% We need to explain somewhere that we can go from one state to the other by 1 custoemr arriving or 1 customer leaving.

> %%% In fact, where the rates of change come from is not explained at all!

Reviewer: I agree **but** this needs us to decide on what level of detail we go to.

Reviewer: @geraintpalmer and I have spoken:

- Remove 2.2
- Add a paragraph after application to barber shop: "The state increases when people arrive and this happens at a rate of change of 10. The state decrease when people are served and this happens at a rate of 4 per active server."

Reviewer: In previous bullets (with two ways of defining rules) add: "in both cases no two events can occur at the same time".

> One interesting property of this distribution is that it is considered
> memoryless which means that if a customer has been having their hair cut for 5
> minutes this does not change the rate at which their service ends.
> %%% This is incorrect.
> %%% "the probability of a customer finishing service within the next 5 minutes does not change if we know they have been having their hair cut for 3 minutes already"
> This distribution is quite common in the real world and therefore a common
> assumption.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One interesting property of this distribution is that it is considered
memoryless which means the probability of a customer finishing service 
within the next 5 minutes does not change if we know they have been 
having their hair cut for 3 minutes already.
This distribution is quite common in the real world and therefore a common
assumption.
```

\(P_{t}\) where \((P_{t})_{ij}\) is the probability of being in state \(j\)
after \(t\) time units having started in state \(i\). We can use \(Q\) to

> calculate \(P_{t}\) using the matrix exponential:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
calculate \(P_{t}\) using a value that can be calculated numerically called the matrix exponential:
```

> %%% A matrix exponential is not a standard concept. Should this be explained? Or at least talked about like it doesn't matter if you don't know. (again: who is this book for?)

Reviewer: > is not a standard concept.

What is the standard concept is the correct question (matrix exponential is absolutely standard).

When we figure these things out we need to keep in mind further chapters where some levels of detail might significantly lengthen/change the book

Reviewer: Once we agree we should capture these decisions as principles that we can add to `src/README.md` on #66 which in turn can be written in an "about this book" section.

Reviewer: Agreed action: Add footnote.

    \label{eqn:continuous_time_markov_process_steady_state}
\end{equation}

> %%% Along with $$\sum \pi = 1$$.

Reviewer: ?

Reviewer: Add summation constraint to equation for `\pi`.

Reviewer: Add discussion of this to doctoring for relevant function.

\end{pyout}

We see that no matter what state (row) the system is in, after 500 time units
the probabilities are all the same.

> %%% Can this sentence be clearer? "We see that, after 500 time units, the probability of ending up in each state (columns) are the same regardless of the state the system began in (row)."

Reviewer: :+1:

0.261756
\end{pyout}

> %%% Can we add an extra sentence here, for navigation. E.g. "Now we have defined the models, let's use them to compare the two possible scenarios."

Reviewer: :+1:

> If we were too have 2 extra space in the waiting room:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we were to have 2 extra space in the waiting room:
```

\begin{pyout}
0.078636
\end{pyout}

> %%% Concluding remarks? "Therefore, is we see that it would be more beneficial to increase the number of barbers by one than to increase the waiting room capacity by two."

Reviewer: :+1:

discussed above. To do this, we need to use an R library call
\mintinline{R}{expm}.

To be able to make use of the nice \mintinline{R}{%>%} ``pipe'' operator we are
also going to load the \mintinline{R}{magrittr} library.
Now if we wanted to see what would happen after .5 time units we obtain:

> %%% Very very minor point. But the %>% is not required right? I'm just wondering if this is too many new throwaway concepts for one chapter? It is nice though.

Reviewer: No *but* my understanding of "modern" R is that it essentially is so we should keep it.

}
\end{Rin}

> %%% In the Python section you run this for the base scenario too, to be able to see the improvements.

Reviewer: :+1:

[1] 0.0786359
\end{Rout}

> %%% Concluding remarks? "Therefore, is we see that it would be more beneficial to increase the number of barbers by one than to increase the waiting room capacity by two."

Reviewer: :+1:
